sometimes in our Computing life we
actually make use of software without
realizing that we are using a particular
piece of software and one very good
example of this is
ffmc ffmc is actually a command line
utility and its job is to do file format
conversion and in that process it can
also do a number of cool things now
because of the license of FF impact it
is actually included in certain other
pieces of software you know to do its
job in the background and as a result
you may or may not realize that it's
actually that but in fact it is so what
we're going to do today is we are not
only going to give FF impact the
recognition it deserves we're going to
learn how to actually use it from the
command line that is the plain vanilla
FFM running on your computer from
scratch so yeah I hope this interests
you after learning how to use FF impa
I've actually found it quite useful and
indispensable in many situations so yeah
I hope you thing the same you're
watching another random Wednesday
episode on 0612
TV hello and welcome back to another
random Wednesday episode so FFM pack
very interesting tool let's begin by
learning how to install it we'll then
move on to the basics and then to some
more interesting things you can do with
this piece P of software of course as it
turns out it is much more than a file
format converter but yeah like I said
we'll see it when the time comes first
of course is how do we install this
program well you can find a download
link in the video description it will
send you to the download page on the
official FFM site you realize right off
the bat that things are a little bit
complicated because there are three
different versions of FFM pack you can
choose from but they do tell you that
you know if if you have no idea what
you're supposed to do here just pick the
static version so that's what we're
going to do basically the idea is the
static version contains all of FFM pack
in onee file which for our purposes is
the most convenient so I would recommend
that as well go ahead and download the
latest version for whatever business
your computer is and you realize that
what you end up with is an archive open
the archive in an archive manager of
some sort if you don't have one you can
check out pip which I will also link to
in the video description within the
archive enter the bin folder and look
for FFM that's really the only file you
need so extract that to some location
that you can remember and we can begin
converting now if you intend to use FFM
pack from anywhere on your computer you
might want to you know save it somewhere
important like in a program files folder
and then link to it using the path
variable so what you're seeing on screen
right now are the steps I've used to do
that I do actually have things set up
this way because well it's just easier
for me of course this step is optional
so if you don't want to do that then
make sure FFM pack is in the same folder
as the video files you want to work
with with that out of the way let's move
on to the fun part and that is to
actually convert files with
FFM now previously to this I know I
mentioned videos repeatedly but as it
turns out FFM pack can also work with
images and audio basically well it's a
command line utility you just tell it
what file the process and what kind of
output you want and it just does it
that's how amazing it is so let's
actually try a very simple example first
of taking a video file and converting it
from AVI to MP4 now what you see here is
a folder in which I have staged the
files I want to work with throughout
this video you can open a command line
very quickly on a Windows computer by
first making sure no files are selected
then hold down shift right click empty
space and then click on open command
window here that's convenient because
the command window opens in that
particular folder so you can get started
right away here's what FFM syntax looks
like you start off by saying
FFM then you say- I which means I'm
about to specify an input file and then
you go ahead and specify the input file
so what we want to do here is we want to
convert an avi file to MP4 so simply all
you have to do is to actually press
space and type out the new name of the
file making sure that the extension is
MP4 hit enter and well off it goes fmac
is now converting an avi file to MP4 by
just looking at the file extension of
the file name you gave it that is how
simple FFM pack actually is and a lot of
the times when we want to convert
between different file formats that's
really all you need to do but well the
time will come when you want to do
something more complex and that is where
the command switches start to come in
probably the first thing that concerns
you would be the quality of the file you
probably want to be able to tweak up the
quality and what I'm going to show you
here works for MP4 and Avi respectively
let's start with Avi now there is a
factor in image compression called the
quantizer that actually affects file
quality and it is linked to you know how
we should choose a bit rate when it
comes to variable bit rate en coding but
we won't go into too much detail about
that basically all you need to know is
that the quantizer is a number the
smaller the number the higher the
quality of course the higher the quality
the higher the file size so that's a
tradeoff you need to work with to set
the quantitizer for an output avi file
all you have to do is well you call FFM
pack you specify the input and then you
type- Q followed by a number this number
is of course the quality setting you
want numbers between 20 to 30 is common
but if you want a very high quality
video you can go as low as the single
digits if you want it to be lower
quality you can go as high as 50
experiment you'll be able to see the
difference in the different settings you
choose do note that this only works when
you are writing a file with aavi
extension if you're doing this for MP4
files then you want to specify the CRF
value instead so instead of- Q you type-
CRF and then enter your number I think
this exists on a slightly different
scale from the Das Q flag so yeah be
careful of that the values are not
necessarily the same once again
experiment you know look at the file
size look at the Quality and decide
whether you want to bump it up or down
if you prefer finer control you can also
specify the exact bit rate of the output
file now bit rates work for both audio
and video in AA so you'll probably want
to tell it whether you want this to work
on the video Channel or the audio
Channel and to specify this you want to
enter a colon and then type type V or a
depending on which stream you want to
Target then give it a number for example
if I want a video quality to be 1,000k
which is actually quite low well you can
do that I can even specify both audio
and video bit rates at the same time and
that will fix the two bit rates of the
two different streams this is of course
only if you want finer control so yeah
for the vast majority of use cases I'll
say you know what you've learned so far
covers your bases but let's say we want
to go a step further let's take a look
at FF impact filters just for fun now
here's the deal FFM pack actually comes
bundled with a whole bunch of different
filters and they all have various
effects on the video itself what I've
done is through the whole list of video
and audio filters I've picked a total of
five to go through with you two of them
are for audio and the remaining three
are for video and these are the things
you probably do the most often so yeah
let's take it from the top we're going
slideshow mode once again because with
overrun let's quickly jump through the
five filters first let's tweak the
volume to do this simply add the
following flag to the FFM pack call the
flag itself says we want to use a filter
on the audio Channel and its parameter
says that we want to call the volume
filter with a setting of two the number
we provide is actually a multiplier so
when we we say volume equals 2 we are
actually doubling the volume you can of
course use decimal volumes including
value smaller than one to reduce the
volume next Channel
remapping sometimes we accidentally
record with a mono mic into a stereo
track causing the sound to only go to
the left Channel we can easily fix this
by mapping the audio from the left input
channel to both the output channels
that's what this command call means the
left channel is zero and the right
channel is one so what we're doing here
is mapping the input Left Channel to the
output Left Channel and then the input
Left Channel to the output right channel
thus creating an audio track that has
sound on both sides let's move on to the
video filters first cropping the syntax
looks like this notice how we say filter
colon V because we now want to Target
video we then say crop and specify up to
four parameters
the first two are width and height which
specify the width and height of the
output the two remaining parameters are
optional and they specify the upper left
corner of the cropping if unspecified
the cropping is
centered you can use aramatic for this
as well for example this statement means
that we want to crop the video to 2/3 of
its original size the variables inore W
and inore H are available referring to
the input width and height resp
effectively next video scaling this
looks very similar to the first two
parameters of the crop filter use W and
H to set the width and height of the
output you can also use Ari meod like
with cropping the variables inore W and
inore H are also available here in
addition if you like proportional
scaling you can specify -1 for one of
the input parameters its value will be
determined from the length you do
provide finally rotation simply say
rotate equals and specify your angle
unfortunately your angle needs to be
specified in radians luckily it's not
that hard since you can just multiply it
by the constant pi/ 180 so the following
statement refers to a clockwise rotation
of
45 the result of this operation looks
something like this and there you have
it we've actually gone through a pretty
comprehensive beginnner guide to
installing and using ffmc and we've even
taken a look at some complex features in
the form of some filters but I've barely
scratched the surface like I said FFM
pack has a whole host of filters and if
you want to look at the full list I will
include the link in the video
description so you can find out more
that's all there is for this particular
episode it does look like I've overrun a
bit so sorry about that but hopefully
you find found this video insightful
anyway thank you very much for watching
and until next time you're watching 0612
TV thank you very much for watching if
you like this video consider checking
out the rest of my work on my channel
alternatively you may be interested in a
playlist of my earlier work on Computing
and computer science topics if you'd
like to show me some monetary support I
am on patreon you can find a link to my
campaign in the video description of
course you can simply like this video or
leave a comment I'll be sure to respond
as soon as I can to keep in touch with
my future uploads do subscribe to this
Channel and for even more updates check
out the official Twitter account for
this Channel at 0612 TV thank you for
your support